Napalys/regexp unknown flags (#18089)
github/codeql: javascript/ql/lib/change-notes/2024-11-28-regexp-unknown-flags.md

---
category: majorAnalysis
---

> * Queries such as `IncompleteSanitization`, `TaintedPathCustomizations`, and `IncompleteBlacklistSanitizer` are now compatible with both `RegExpLiteral` and `RegExpObject`.

Reviewer: Maybe focus more on the change that users will actually see.  
The change they'll see is that the queries now flag `new RegExp` objects, and not just regex literals. 

Same with the below.

> * Queries working with regular expressions now also handle regular expressions constructed using `new RegExp(..)`. Previously some queries didn't handle such regular expressions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `js/incomplete-sanitization` query now also checks regular expressions constructed using `new RegExp(..)`. Previously it only checked regular expression literals.
* Regular expression-based sanitisers implemented with `new RegExp(..)` are now detected in more cases.
```
I'd try to split this up to be more accurate. We already have quite good coverage for `new RegExp(..)` and IMO the change note made it sound like things were in a worse state than they were.

---
category: majorAnalysis
---

> * Queries now flag `new RegExp objects`, not just `regex literals`.
> * `RegExp` queries in JavaScript now account for unknown flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Queries working with regular expressions now also handle regular expressions constructed using `new RegExp(..)`. Previously some queries didn't handle such regular expressions. 
* Regular expression related queries now account for unknown flags.
```
